P a g e | 1
•
•
•
•
•
•
Buyapowa Limited
HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY
STATEMENT OF GENERAL POLICY
Buyapowa Limited fully accepts the obligations placed upon it by the various Acts of
Parliament covering health and safety. The Company requires its Chief Executive Officer to
ensure that the following policy is implemented and to report annually on its effectiveness.
MANAGEMENT ORGANISATION AND ARRANGEMENTS
Introduction
This policy has been prepared and published under the requirements of Health & Safety at
Work legislation. The purpose of the policy is to establish general standards for health and
safety at work and to distribute responsibility for their achievement to all managers,
supervisors, and other employees through the normal line management processes.
MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
Chief Executive
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the implementation of the Company's
policy. In particular he is responsible for ensuring that the policy is widely communicated
and that its effectiveness is monitored.
Directors and Senior Managers
These managers are wholly accountable to the Chief Executive for the implementation and
monitoring of the policy within the area of their specified responsibility.
Safety Officer
The Safety Officer is a nominated manager responsible for co-ordinating effective health
and safety policies and controls across the organisation.
The Safety Officer is responsible for:
e the production and maintenance of the Company's policy and ensuring that Department
Guidelines are consistent with policy;
e its application;
e monitoring and reporting on the effectiveness of the policy;
e the provision of general advice about the implication of the law;
e the identification of health and safety training needs. The safety officer also acts on
behalf of the Chief Executive, as the Company's formal link with the Health and Safety
Executive, Environment Health Departments and other external agencies;
e the production and maintenance of any health and safety documents or codes of
practice as necessary for any relevant area of the Company services where this is
required.
Page|1
P a g e | 2
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Responsibilities for Specific Workplaces
| London Head Office Safety Officer
HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT PROCESS
Buyapowa Limited believes that consideration of the health, safety and welfare of staff is an
integral part of the management process. The provision of the Health and Safety at Work etc
Act, associated Codes of Practice and other relevant Directives will be adopted as required
standards within the Company.
The Company requires managers to approach health and safety in a systematic way, by
identifying hazards and problems, planning improvements, taking executive action and
monitoring results so that the majority of health and safety needs will be met from locally
held budgets as part of day-to-day management, although many health and safety problems
can be rectified at little additional cost.
For major additional expenditure, cases of need will be submitted by to the Chief Executive.
If unpredictable health and safety issues arise during the year, the Chief Executive must
assess the degree of risk, in deciding the necessary resources and actions to commit to
addressing these issues.
HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE GUIDELINES
It is the policy of Buyapowa Limited to require each office to produce appropriate
departmental health and safety policies or guidelines. These should embody the minimum
standards for health and safety for each department and the work organised within it.
It shall be the responsibility of the department manager to bring to the attention of all
members of his or her staff, the provisions of the guidelines, and to consult with appropriate
Health and Safety Representatives about the updating of these guidelines. Suggested model
contents of a guideline are:
e clear reference to safe methods of working
e information about immediate matters of health and safety concern, such as fire drills,
fire exits, first aid;
e training standards;
e names of specialist advisers who can be approached about the work of the office;
e accident reporting procedures;
e = office safety rules;
e fire procedures;
IDENTIFICATION OF HEALTH AND SAFETY HAZARDS
ANNUAL AUDIT AND REGULAR RISK ASSESSMENTS
It is the policy of Buyapowa Limited to require a thorough examination of health and safety
performance against established standards in each offcie, at least annually. The technique
to be adopted for such examinations will be the ‘Safety Audit’. The Audit requires review of:
e standards laid down in the policy;
e office guidelines;
e relevant regulations;
e environmental factors;
Page|2
P a g e | 3
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
e staff attitudes;
e staff instructions;
e methods of work;
e contingency plans;
e recording and provision of information about accidents and hazards and the assessment
of risk.
The information obtained by the Audit will be used to form the basis of the plan for the office
for the following year.
The responsibility for ensuring that audit activity is carried out as part of this policy rests with
the Chief Executive and will be carried out by the Safety Officer. Although the Audit remains
a management responsibility, managers are required as part of this policy to seek the
involvement of the appropriate Health and Safety Representative in the conduct of the Audit.
It is the management's responsibility to ensure that any deficiencies highlighted in the Audit
are dealt with as speedily as possible.
Managers have a continual responsibility for the elimination of hazards in order to maintain
a safe working environment and will also be expected to carry out regular risk assessments
in line with the Health and Safety Executive Guidelines; that is follow the 5 steps:
Identify the hazards
Decide who might be harmed and how
Evaluate the Risks and decide on precautions
Record the findings and implement the precautions
mM kW NP
Review the assessment and update when necessary
TRAINING
Health and Safety training shall be incorporated within annual training programmes, as part
of the development of a systematic training plan. Health and Safety training needs will,
therefore, be identified and planned for in the same manner as other training needs.
Three areas of need shall be given special priority:
e training for managers, to equip them with an understanding of the manager's
responsibilities under this policy, and the role and purpose of safety representatives;
e training for all members of staff to acquaint them with the main provisions of the law
and its practical implication, the main features of this policy and Key safety rules;
e induction and in-service training for staff at all levels to acquaint them fully with new
requirements and hazards.
RECORDS, STATISTICS AND MONITORING
The Company will operate systems for recording, analysis and presentation of information
about accidents, hazard situations and untoward occurrences. Advice on systems will be
provided by the Safety Officer, in conjunction, where appropriate with specialist advisory
bodies for example local Environmental Health Departments, and the responsibility for the
operation of these systems rests with managers and supervisors at all levels. Information
obtained from the analysis of accident statistics must be acted upon and, where necessary,
bids for additional expenditure made to the Chief Executive.
Page |3
P a g e | 4
•
•
•
REPORTS TO THE HEALTH AND SAFETY EXECUTIVE
The responsibility for meeting the requirements of the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and
Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1985 (RIDDOR) to the Health and Safety Executive,
shall rest with the Chief Executive as delegated to the Safety Officer.
SPECIALIST ADVISORY BODIES
Certain bodies and the individual members of those bodies, have always had a Health and
Safety role, most notably, the Health & Safety executive, or local Environmental Health
Departments. If further specialist advice is required, this may be obtained by Managers from
expert individuals or bodies outside the Company.
THE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE
It is the policy of the Company to obtain independent Occupational Health advice when
required. Such services can include counselling on health and associated matters,
investigation of hazards and accidents, environment studies, health interviews and
employment medicals.
FIRST AID
FIRE
It is the policy of the Company to make provision for First Aid and the training of ‘First Aiders’
in accordance with the First Aid Regulations (1982). The Safety Officer is responsible for
ensuring the Regulations are implemented and for identifying training needs.
The Chief Executive is responsible for ensuring that the staff receive adequate fire training,
and that nominated fire officers are designated in all Buyapowa Limited premises. The Chief
Executive delegates these responsibilities to the Directors.
In addition the Company will nominate a Fire Officer (this may be the Safety Officer or
someone external to the Company) who will:
e report and advise on the standard of fire safety in the Company's premises and the
standard of fire training of its staff;
e undertake overall responsibility for fire training;
e assist in the investigation of all fires in the Company's premises and to submit reports of
such incidents.
CONDEMNATION AND DISPOSAL OF EQUIPMENT
Procedures for the, condemnation and disposal of equipment are determined by the Chief
Executive. Managers introducing new equipment should have such equipment checked
initially by the Safety Officer.
LIFTING AND HANDLING
Managers are responsible for informing staff of safe lifting techniques. The Safety Officer will
identify specific training needs and ensure training in lifting and handling is provided to staff
who require it.
Page |4
P a g e | 5
NON-SMOKING ON COMPANY PREMISES
Buyapowa Limited policy is that there will be no smoking in its buildings. The overall aim is
to reduce smoking and so save life, reduce risk of fire, prevent unnecessary illness and
chronic disability. The rules relating to smoking on Company premises are available from
Head Office. These rules also extend to e-cigarettes / vaping.
CONTROL OF SUBSTANCES HAZARDOUS TO HEALTH
The Control of Substances Hazardous to Health Regulations (COSHH) require the Company
to identify those substances which are in use and which are hazardous to health (as legally
defined) and to assess the risk of those substances. The Company must also provide and use
controls to prevent exposure to substances hazardous to health; maintain controls by
monitoring exposure, or by health surveillance of employees; and provide information,
instruction and training for employees on all these matters. The Safety Officer is responsible
for implementing these Regulations.
COMPUTER INSTALLATIONS AND VISUAL DISPLAY UNITS
All new computer installations must adhere to the British Standard Specifications and comply
with the Health and Safety (Display Screen Equipment) Regulations 1992. All new employees
operating such equipment are expected to read the Health and Safety Executive guidance
entitled ‘Working with Display Screen Equipment’.
CONTROL OF WORKING TIME
Buyapowa Limited is committed to the principles of the Working Time Regulations. No
member of staff is expected to work more than 48 hours per week (including overtime)
unless there are exceptional circumstances. Similarly all other requirements of the
regulations e.g. in relation to breaks, night workers etc. will be complied with.
HEALTH AND SAFETY AND THE INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYEE
The Health and Safety at Work Act requires each employee ‘to take reasonable care for the
Health and Safety of himself and of other persons who may be affected by their acts and
omissions’ and co-operate with management to enable management to carry out their
responsibilities under the Act. Employees have equal responsibility with the Company for
Health and Safety at Work.
The refusal of any employee to meet their obligations will be regarded as a matter to be
dealt with under the Disciplinary Procedure. In normal circumstances counselling of the
employee should be sufficient. With a continuing problem, or where an employee leaves
themself or other employees open to risk or injury, it may be necessary to implement the
formal stages of the Disciplinary Procedure.
PEOPLE WORKING ON COMPANY PREMISES NOT EMPLOYED BY THE COMPANY
Persons working in Buyapowa Limited premises who are employed by other organisations
are expected to follow Company Health and Safety Policies with regard to the safety of
Company employees, their own personal safety (and that of other parties such as the general
public if appropriate) and their method of work. This responsibility will be included in
contracts or working arrangements.
Page|5
P a g e | 6
VISITORS AND MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC
The Company wishes to ensure that as far as is reasonably practicable, the Health, Safety
and Welfare of visitors to Company establishments will be of the highest standard.
Any member of staff who notices persons acting in a way which would endanger other staff,
should normally inform their Head of Department. If the danger is immediate, common
sense must be used to give warning, call for assistance or give aid as necessary. It is equally
important not to over-react to a situation.
CONTRACTORS
The Company wishes to ensure that as far as is reasonably practicable, the Health, Safety
and Welfare of Contractors working in the Company's establishments will be of the highest
standards. In addition, Contractors and their employees have an obligation so far as is
reasonably practicable to ensure all equipment, materials and premises under their control
are safe and without risks to health.
Contractors must also observe the Company's Fire Safety Procedures. These obligations will
be drawn to the attention of the Contractors in the contract document issued to them. In
addition a Company Manager will be identified in the contract as having authority to stop
the work of Contractors who are placing themselves, other staff, or visitors at risk. Any
member of staff who judges there is a risk where contractors are working, should inform
their Manager immediately.
In tendering, Contractors will be asked to confirm they have a written Health, Safety and
Welfare Policy. The Company's Manager letting the Contract will be responsible for
monitoring the Health and Safety performance of the Contractor and the Contractor's
performance will be a factor in deciding whether or not to invite the Contractor to tender
again.
Page |6